name:		StudyDesigns
uri:		http://edda.dbmi.pitt.edu/ontologies/StudyDesigns.owl
version:	1.2.06
location:	memory
description:	Terminology of study designs and publication types (beta version). Developed by the Evidence in Documents, Discovery, and Analysis (EDDA) Group. Tanja Bekhuis (PI); Eugene Tseytlin (Systems Developer); Ashleigh Faith (Taxonomist). Department of Biomedical Informatics, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pennsylvania, US. This work was made possible by the US National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health, grant no. R00LM010943. Based on research described in Bekhuis T, Demner-Fushman D, Crowley RS. Comparative effectiveness research designs: an analysis of terms and coverage in Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) and Emtree. Journal of the Medical Library Association (JMLA). 2013 April;101(2):92-100. PMC3634392. The terminology appearing in JMLA has been enriched with terms from MeSH, NCI Thesaurus (NCIT), and Emtree, the controlled vocabularies for MEDLINE, the National Cancer Institute, and Embase, respectively, as well as from published research literature. Variants include synonyms for preferred terms, singular and plural forms, and American and British spellings. Definitions, if they exist, are mainly from MeSH, NCIT, Emtree, and medical dictionaries. A class for Publication Type is included because investigators consider type and design when screening reports for inclusion in comparative effectiveness research.
configuration:	stem.words=false, strip.digits=false, ignore.small.words=true

sources:

StudyDesigns: Terminology of study designs and publication types (beta version). Developed by the Evidence in Documents, Discovery, and Analysis (EDDA) Group. Tanja Bekhuis (PI); Eugene Tseytlin (Systems Developer); Ashleigh Faith (Taxonomist). Department of Biomedical Informatics, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pennsylvania, US. This work was made possible by the US National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of Health, grant no. R00LM010943. Based on research described in Bekhuis T, Demner-Fushman D, Crowley RS. Comparative effectiveness research designs: an analysis of terms and coverage in Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) and Emtree. Journal of the Medical Library Association (JMLA). 2013 April;101(2):92-100. PMC3634392. The terminology appearing in JMLA has been enriched with terms from MeSH, NCI Thesaurus (NCIT), and Emtree, the controlled vocabularies for MEDLINE, the National Cancer Institute, and Embase, respectively, as well as from published research literature. Variants include synonyms for preferred terms, singular and plural forms, and American and British spellings. Definitions, if they exist, are mainly from MeSH, NCIT, Emtree, and medical dictionaries. A class for Publication Type is included because investigators consider type and design when screening reports for inclusion in comparative effectiveness research.
